Reference RFC file (#6)
valkey-io/valkey-rfc: REFERENCE.md

---
RFC: <PR number>
Status: <Proposed>
---

# Title (Required)

## Abstract (Required)

A few sentences describing the feature.

## Motivation (Required)

What the feature solves and why the existing functionality is not enough.

## Design considerations (Required)

A description of the design constraints and requirements for the proposal. Comparisons with similar features in other projects.

## Specification (Required)

A more detailed description of the feature, including why certain details in the design have been chosen.

### Commands (Optional)

If any new commands are introduced:

1. Command name
   - **Request**
   - **Response**

### Authentication and Authorization (Optional)

> If there are any changes around authentication and authorization (ACL) access for commands/keyspace/channels.

Reviewer: I would omit this, it seems very niche and not very likely to come up.

Reviewer: Oh, I might have just been confused then. I would just add a description that this includes adding ACL categories as well. I thought you were referring to the overall auth system.

> ### Append-only file (Optional)

Reviewer 2: I agree there might be different considerations about AOF and RDB. but maybe for the sake of simplicity we can set a section name for 'Persistency' which will capture all of these?

Author: Moving them next to each other.

If there are any changes around the persistence mechanism of every write operation.

### Configuration (Optional)

If there are any configuration changes introduced to enable/disable/modify the behavior of the feature.

### Keyspace notifications (Optional)

If there are any events to be introduced or modified to observe activity around the dataset.

### Cluster mode (Optional)

> If there is any special handling for this feature (e.g., client redirection, Sharded PubSub, etc) in cluster mode, list out the behavior.

Reviewer 3: I think it would be worthwhile calling out the changes to cluster messages as well, including new extensions, and new types, etc. We have seen compat issues in this area in the past.

> If there are any changes introduced for cluster mode related activities like cluster bus protocol change, slot migration, etc.

Reviewer: I thought this was about special considerations around clustermode. I think if there is something about changing clustermode, it would likely not be in this section.

### Module API (Optional)

> If any module API is modified or introduced to support dynamic libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any new module APIs are needed to implement or support this feature.
```

### RDB (Optional)

If there are any changes in snapshotting mechanisms like new data type, version, etc.

### Replication (Optional)

If there are any changes required in the replication mechanism between a primary and replica.

### Networking (Optional)

If there are any changes introduced in the RESP protocol (RESP), client behavior, new server-client interaction mechanism (TCP, RDMA), etc.

### Dependencies (Optional)

> If there are any new dependency libraries required to support the feature. Existing dependencies are jemalloc, lua, etc.

Reviewer 3: and whether the dependencies will be vendored (not encouraged), and if yes, explain the reasoning

> ### Metrics (Optional)

Reviewer 2: Maybe the 'Metrics' naming does not frame the requirement correctly? 
I would suggest to add a section for 'Observability' in which we can state the different new 'stats', info sections/fields etc... used for both debugging and measurements

Reviewer 3: +1 on observability for the title. I don't have a strong opinion for the text (metrics vs stats) other than being consistent with our official documentation (stats?)

Author: Observability seems apt. 👍

If there are any new metrics to be introduced to observe behavior or measure the performance of the feature.

### Benchmarking (Optional)

> If there are any benchmarks performed and preliminary results are available to share or a set of scenarios identified to measure the feature's performance.

Reviewer 3: It is also super important to describe how the test is setup, both hardware and software, in addition to the performance numbers

### Testing (Optional)

> If there are any test scenarios planned out to support the feature's stability and validate behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there are any test scenarios planned to ensure the feature's stability and validate its behavior.
```

### Debug mechanism (Optional)

> If there is any debug mechanism introduced to support admin/operators for further maintaining the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is any debug mechanism introduced to support admin/operators for maintaining the feature.
```
